add local to prod example (#8948)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/guides/dagster/local-to-production-tutorial.mdx

)
def items(context) -> pd.DataFrame:
    """Items from the Hacker News API: each is a story or a comment on a story."""
    hn_client = context.resources.hn_client

    rows = []
    for item_id in range(1, hn_client.fetch_max_item_id()):
        rows.append(hn_client.fetch_item_by_id(item_id))

    result = pd.DataFrame(rows, columns=hn_client.item_field_names).drop_duplicates(
        subset=["id"]
    )
    result.rename(columns={"by": "user_id"}, inplace=True)
    return result
```

In this asset we use a resource (`hn_client`) that hasn't been written yet. We'll write it in a moment. First, let's write the assets to create the `comments` and `stories` datasets:

```python file=/guides/dagster/local_to_prod_tutorial/assets.py startafter=start_comments_stories endbefore=end_comments_stories
# assets.py

@asset
def comments(items: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame:
    """Comments from the Hacker News API."""
    return items[items["type"] == "comment"]

@asset
def stories(items: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame:
    """Stories from the Hacker News API."""
    return items[items["type"] == "story"]
```

Now let's write the resource to fetch data from Hacker News.

<Note>

> When you’re in the beginning development stages, you may find it easier to write the code to fetch data directly in your assets or ops. This is great for initial development, but eventually you may want to refactor your code to use resources. In this case we’re going to jump right into defining a resource because we're going to use it again in the optional section at the end of this guide.

Author: How about

```
In many cases, it is often most convenient to interact with an external service directly in assets or ops, 
rather than write a resource. We recommend that you refactor your code to use resources 
in the following cases:
* you need multiple assets or ops to interact with the service in a consistent way 
* you want to interact with a different service in certain scenarios (ie. a staging environment, or unit tests)
```

I think it still could benefit from an explanation of why we are ignoring our own advice in this guide though. So maybe an additional sentence to address that

</Note>

Now we can add these assets to our repository and materialize them via Dagit as part of our local development workflow

```python file=/guides/dagster/local_to_prod_tutorial/repository/repository_v1.py startafter=start endbefore=end
# repository.py

@repository
def repo():
    return [
        *with_resources(
            [items, comments, stories],
            resource_defs={
                "hn_client": hn_api_client,
                "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager,
            },
        )
    ]
```

When we materialize the assets in Dagit we can add configuration for the `snowflake_io_manager` in the launchpad, or we can use the `configured` API and update our repository to look like this:

```python file=/guides/dagster/local_to_prod_tutorial/repository/repository_v2.py startafter=start endbefore=end
# repository.py

@repository
def repo():
    resource_defs = {
        "hn_client": hn_api_client,
        "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager.configured(
            {
                "account": "abc1234.us-east-1",
                "user": "me@company.com",

>                 "password": "my_super_secret_password",

Author: i added some comments into the code snippet, does that seem clear enough?

>                 "password": "my_super_secret_password",

Reviewer: I actually didn't notice the code comment until I came here and saw Sandy's comment. It could come immediately after the code snippet.

            "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager.configured(
                {
                    "account": "abc1234.us-east-1",
                    "user": "me@company.com",
                    "password": "my_super_secret_password",
                    "database": "SANDBOX",
                    "schema": "ALICE",
                }
            ),
        },
        "production": {
            "hn_client": hn_api_client,
            "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager.configured(
                {
                    "account": "abc1234.us-east-1",
                    "user": "dev@company.com",
                    "password": "company_super_secret_password",
                    "database": "PRODUCTION",
                    "schema": "HACKER_NEWS",
                }
            ),
        },
    }
    deployment_name = os.environ.get("DAGSTER_DEPLOYMENT", "local")

    return [
        with_resources(
            [items, comments, stories], resource_defs=resource_defs[deployment_name]
        )
    ]
```

Now, we can set the environment variable `DAGSTER_DEPLOYMENT=production` in our deployment and the correct resources will be applied to the assets.

<Note>

> If you're using <a href="https://dagster.io/cloud">Dagster Cloud</a>, this environment variable will be set for you. Additionally, if you're using <a href="https://docs.dagster.cloud/guides/branch-deployments">Branch Deployments</a> <code>DAGSTER_DEPLOYMENT</code> will be automatically set to <code>VAR</code>.

Author: VAR is a placeholder right now. I need to update this to whatever DAGSTER_DEPLOYMENT is set to in the branch deployment case

> If you're using <a href="https://dagster.io/cloud">Dagster Cloud</a>, this environment variable will be set for you. Additionally, if you're using <a href="https://docs.dagster.cloud/guides/branch-deployments">Branch Deployments</a> <code>DAGSTER_DEPLOYMENT</code> will be automatically set to <code>VAR</code>.

Author: can also reword to 

```
Additionally, if you're using Branch Deployments, the environment variable will be set as DAGSTER_DEPLOYMENT=branch_deployment
```

where branch_deployment is whatever the value will actually be in the branch deployment case

</Note>

> We still have some problems with this setup:

Reviewer 2: This arc where we introduce varying resources and then take it away strikes me as kind of clunky. I'm left wondering "why is the guide showing me this need this thing that I don't need"?

Also, putting all the configuration in environment variables passes the buck to whomever is responsible for configuring the environment variables, and they might not have an understanding of the scheme we want to use for deciding where stuff goes in snowflake in different deployments.

What do you think about ending up on something like the following? The idea would be to have as much of the logic in Python as possible, but push out a few things to environment variables that can't be in Python, which is what I would recommend users in real life.
```
    resource_defs = {
        "local": {
            "hn_client": hn_api_client,
            "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager.configured(
                {
                    "account": "abc1234.us-east-1",
                    "user": {"env": "DEV_SNOWFLAKE_USER"},
                    "password": {"env": "DEV_SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD"},
                    "database": "SANDBOX",
                    "schema": {"env": "DEV_SNOWFLAKE_USER"},
                }
            ),
        },
        "production": {
            "hn_client": hn_api_client,
            "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager.configured(
                {
                    "account": "abc1234.us-east-1",
                    "user": "system@company.com",
                    "password": {"env": "SYSTEM_SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD"},
                    "database": "PRODUCTION",
                    "schema": "HACKER_NEWS",
                }
            ),
        },
    }
```

```python file=/guides/dagster/local_to_prod_tutorial/repository/repository_v5.py startafter=start endbefore=end
# repository.py

@repository
def repo():
    resource_defs = {
        "hn_client": hn_api_client,
        "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager.configured(
            {
                "account": {"env": "SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT"},
                "user": {"env": "SNOWFLAKE_USER"},
                "password": {"env": "SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD"},
                "database": {"env": "SNOWFLAKE_DATABASE"},
                "schema": {"env": "SNOWFLAKE_SCHEMA"},
            }
        ),
    }

    return [*with_resources([items, comments, stories], resource_defs=resource_defs)]
```

<Note>

Since all of the Snowflake IO manager configuration is being set through environment variables, we no longer need to select the resource configuration based on deployment! If we decide to add more configuration that varies between local and production, we can go back to the previous pattern of selecting config based on the deployment name.

</Note>

#### Staging

Depending on your organization’s Dagster setup, there are a couple of options for a staging environment.

> If you are a Dagster Cloud user, we recommend using [Branch Deployments](https://docs.dagster.cloud/guides/branch-deployments) as your staging step. Check out our \[comprehensive guide to Branch Deployments]\(link to claire’s doc) to learn how to use Branch Deployments to verify your data pipelines before deploying them to production.

Reviewer 2: It would be helpful to have a couple words that explain what a branch deployment is (i.e. a deployment that's automatically generated for each git branch you push).

> If you host a staging deployment of Dagster, we’ve already done all of the necessary work to run our assets in staging! Since we get the configuration for our assets from environment variables, we can simply set the variables to new values in the staging environment, and we’re all set.

Reviewer 2: Should standardize on either first or second person.

### Optional: Testing

You may have noticed a missing step in the development workflow presented in this guide— unit tests! While the main purpose of the guide is to help you transition your code from local development to a production deployment, unit testing is still an important part of the development cycle, and we’d like to take this time to explore a pattern you may find useful when writing your own unit tests: stubbing resources.

The general idea behind stubbing or mocking a Dagster resource is relatively simple: since Dagster’s resource system allows you to supply different implementations of a resource to an asset or op, we can make a simplified version of a “real” resource and use it in unit tests!

<Note>
  Determining when it makes sense to stub a resource for a unit test can be a
  topic of much debate. There are certainly some resources where it would be too

>   complicated to write and maintain a stub. In general, if a resource is

Reviewer 2: If you have an example here of such a resource, it would be helpful. Fine if not though.

Author: yeah adding an example would be great. Some examples that come to mind are Snowflake, aws/gcp/azure

- [IO manager](/concepts/io-management/io-managers) - an IO manager is a special kind of resource that handles storing and loading assets. For example, if we wanted to store assets in S3, we would use Dagster’s built in S3 IO manager.
- [Run config](/concepts/configuration/config-schema) - assets and resources sometimes require configuration to set certain values (like the password to a database). Run config allows you to set these values at run time. In this guide, we will also use an API to set some default run configuration.

Using these Dagster concepts we will:

- Write three assets: the full Hacker News dataset, data about comments, and data about stories.
- Use Dagster's Snowflake IO manager to store the datasets in [Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/).
- Set up our Dagster [repository](/concepts/repositories-workspaces/repositories) so that the configuration for the Snowflake IO manager is automatically supplied based on the environment where the code is running.

> <Note>

Author: not really sure, now that i'm thinking about it. do you think it should be part of the list above or removed entirely?

> <Note>

Reviewer: Two options:

- Add it to the list, with something like `**Optional**: Write a resource that...`
- Just make it a normal ol' paragraph

  At the end of this guide, you'll find an optional section that demonstrates
  writing a resource to fetch data from Hacker News and a pattern for mocking
  resources that can be helpful when writing unit tests.
</Note>

> ### Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Setup
```
[1]
- Adding a horizontal rule to visually separate the section
- This should be an H2

If you want to follow along with this guide you have two options:

> #### Clone the example code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Clone the example code
```

- This should be an H3
- Colons aren't needed in headings

This will give you the final version of the code we will write in this guide

```bash
pip install dagster, dagit
dagster new-project --example local_to_prod
cd local_to_prod
pip install .
```

> #### Start with a scaffolded project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Start with a scaffolded project
```

- This should be an H3
- Colons aren't needed in headings

This will create an empty project where you can copy the code as we write it in this guide

```bash
pip install dagster, dagit
dagster new-project --quick-start local_to_prod
cd local_to_prod
pip install pandas pytest dagster-snowflake dagster-snowflake-pandas

> ```

Reviewer 3: actually, something like a Tab might be a good fit here: https://linear.app/elementl/issue/DREL-362/%5Bdocs%5D-add-tabs-component

i plan to take a stab. will report back. this shouldn't block landing this PR btw

> ```

Author: ok good to know! I'll look at the tab component, that looks super helpful 

fwiw i haven't tested any of these setup instructions myself. I wasn't sure if the new CLI stuff was going to be figured out by the time this doc gets released, so i was waiting to figure out what approach to recommend

> ```

Reviewer: Just popping in to say this is a *great* place for tabs!

> ```

Author: totally misread this and thought the link to docs for tab component i could use. oh well

> ### Part one: Local development

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Part one: Local development
```

[1]

In this section we will:

> - Write our assets.
> - Add the assets to our repository.
> - Add run configuration for the Snowflake IO manager.
> - Materialize assets in Dagit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Write our assets
- Add the assets to our repository
- Add run configuration for the Snowflake I/O manager
- Materialize assets in Dagit
```

[2]

Our docs don't typically include periods at the end of bulleted list items unless there's more than one complete sentence.

Let’s start by writing our three assets. We'll use Pandas DataFrames to interact with the data.

```python file=/guides/dagster/local_to_prod_tutorial/assets.py startafter=start_assets endbefore=end_assets

> # assets.py

Reviewer 3: nit: would be good to include imports so users can copy and paste and run

```python file=/guides/dagster/local_to_prod_tutorial/repository/repository_v2.py startafter=start endbefore=end
# repository.py

@repository
def repo():
    resource_defs = {
        "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager.configured(
            {
                "account": "abc1234.us-east-1",
                "user": "me@company.com",
                # storing passwords in configuration is bad practice. We'll address this later
                # in the guide
                "password": "my_super_secret_password",
                "database": "LOCAL",
                "schema": "ALICE",
            }
        ),
    }

    return [*with_resources([items, comments, stories], resource_defs=resource_defs)]
```

Now we can materialize the assets the Dagit and ensure that the data appears in Snowflake as we expect:

<Image
alt="alt"
src="/images/guides/local_to_production/snowflake_data.png"
width={2304}
height={1064}
/>

<!-- \[Image: Screen Shot 2022-07-19 at 3.21.32 PM.png] -->

> While we define our assets as Pandas DataFrames, the Snowflake IO manager automatically translates the data to and from Snowflake tables. The Python asset name determines the Snowflake table name. In this case three tables will be created: `ITEMS`, `COMMENTS` and `STORIES`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we define our assets as Pandas DataFrames, the Snowflake I/O manager automatically translates the data to and from Snowflake tables. The Python asset name determines the Snowflake table name. In this case three tables will be created: `ITEMS`, `COMMENTS` and `STORIES`.
```

> ### Part two: Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Part two: Deployment
```

[1]

In this section we will:

> - Modify the configuration for the Snowflake IO manager to handle staging and production environments.
> - Discuss different options for managing a staging environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Modify the configuration for the Snowflake I/O manager to handle staging and production environments
- Discuss different options for managing a staging environment
```

[2]

> Now that our assets work locally, we can start the deployment process! We’re going to get our assets set up for our production deployment first, and then circle back and discuss the options for our staging deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that our assets work locally, we can start the deployment process! We'll first set up our assets for production and then discuss the options for our staging deployment.
```

Edited for length + clarity.

> #### Production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Production
```

This should be an H3.

> We want to store the assets in a production Snowflake database, so we need to update the configuration for the `snowflake_io_manager`. But if we were to simply update the values we set for local development, we run in an issue: the next time a developer wants to work on these assets, they will need to remember to change the configuration back to the local values. This leaves room for a developer to accidentally overwrite the production asset during local development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to store the assets in a production Snowflake database, so we need to update the configuration for the `snowflake_io_manager`. But if we were to simply update the values we set for local development, we would run into an issue: the next time a developer wants to work on these assets, they will need to remember to change the configuration back to the local values. This leaves room for a developer to accidentally overwrite the production asset during local development.
```

Edited for verb tense agreement.

> Instead, we can set up the repository determine the configuration for resources based on the environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, we can set up the repository to determine the configuration for resources based on the environment:
```

Typo.

        "production": {
            "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager.configured(
                {
                    "account": "abc1234.us-east-1",
                    "user": "dev@company.com",
                    # password in config is bad practice
                    "password": "company_super_secret_password",
                    "database": "PRODUCTION",
                    "schema": "HACKER_NEWS",
                }
            ),
        },
    }
    deployment_name = os.getenv("DAGSTER_DEPLOYMENT", "local")

    return [
        with_resources(
            [items, comments, stories], resource_defs=resource_defs[deployment_name]
        )
    ]
```

Now, we can set the environment variable `DAGSTER_DEPLOYMENT=production` in our deployment and the correct resources will be applied to the assets.

<Note>
If you're using <a href="https://dagster.io/cloud">Dagster Cloud</a>, this environment variable will be set for you. Additionally, if you're using <a href="https://docs.dagster.cloud/guides/branch-deployments">Branch Deployments</a> <code>DAGSTER_DEPLOYMENT</code> will be automatically set to <code>VAR</code>.

</Note>

We still have some problems with this setup:

> 1. Developers needs to remember to change `user` and `password` to their credentials and `schema` to their name when developing locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Developers need to remember to change `user` and `password` to their credentials and `schema` to their name when developing locally.
```

Typo.

2. Passwords are being stored in code.

> We can easily solve these problems because the Snowflake IO manager accepts configuration from environment variables using the <PyObject object="StringSource" /> configuration type. This allows us to store configuration values as environment variables, and point Dagster to those environment variables in the run configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can easily solve these problems because the Snowflake I/O manager accepts configuration from environment variables using the <PyObject object="StringSource" /> configuration type. This allows us to store configuration values as environment variables and point Dagster to those environment variables in the run configuration:
```

- `IO` > `I/O`
- Remove unnecessary comma

# repository.py

@repository
def repo():
    resource_defs = {
        "local": {
            "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager.configured(
                {
                    "account": "abc1234.us-east-1",
                    "user": {"env": "DEV_SNOWFLAKE_USER"},
                    "password": {"env": "DEV_SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD"},
                    "database": "LOCAL",
                    "schema": {"env": "DEV_SNOWFLAKE_SCHEMA"},
                }
            ),
        },
        "production": {
            "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager.configured(
                {
                    "account": "abc1234.us-east-1",
                    "user": "system@company.com",
                    "password": {"env": "SYSTEM_SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD"},
                    "database": "PRODUCTION",
                    "schema": "HACKER_NEWS",
                }
            ),
        },
    }
    deployment_name = os.getenv("DAGSTER_DEPLOYMENT", "local")

    return [
        with_resources(
            [items, comments, stories], resource_defs=resource_defs[deployment_name]
        )
    ]
```

> #### Staging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Staging
```

This should be an H3.

Depending on your organization’s Dagster setup, there are a couple of options for a staging environment.

> For Dagster Cloud users, we recommend using [Branch Deployments](https://docs.dagster.cloud/guides/branch-deployments) as your staging step. A Branch Deployment is a new Dagster deployment that is automatically generated for each git branch. Check out our \[comprehensive guide to Branch Deployments]\(link to claire’s doc) to learn how to use Branch Deployments to verify data pipelines before deploying them to production.
> 
> For a self hosted staging deployment, we’ve already done most of the necessary work to run our assets in staging! All we need to do is add another entry to the `resource_defs` dictionary in our repository.

Reviewer: Thoughts on putting these into a list?

```suggestion
 - **For Dagster Cloud users**, we recommend using [Branch Deployments](https://docs.dagster.cloud/guides/branch-deployments) as your staging step. A Branch Deployment is a new Dagster deployment that is automatically generated for each git branch. Check out our \[comprehensive guide to Branch Deployments]\(link to claire’s doc) to learn how to use Branch Deployments to verify data pipelines before deploying them to production.

- **For a self-hosted staging deployment**, we’ve already done most of the necessary work to run our assets in staging! All we need to do is add another entry to the `resource_defs` dictionary in our repository.
```

```python file=/guides/dagster/local_to_prod_tutorial/repository/repository_v5.py startafter=start_staging endbefore=end_staging
resource_defs = {
    "local": {...},
    "production": {...},
    "staging": {
        "io_manager": snowflake_io_manager.configured(
            {
                "account": "abc1234.us-east-1",
                "user": "system@company.com",
                "password": {"env": "SYSTEM_SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD"},
                "database": "STAGING",
                "schema": "HACKER_NEWS",
            }
        ),
    },
}
```

> ### Conclusion

Reviewer: I know there was some back-and-forth about this, but it feels pretty odd to me to have a `Conclusion` section not be the last section in the guide.

I'd like to push for having the testing section come first. I feel like since it's clearly labeled as optional, users could skip and go to the conclusion if they wanted to.

> This guide demonstrates how we recommend that you write your assets and jobs so that they transition from local development to staging and production environments without requiring code changes at each step. While we focused on assets in this guide, the same concepts and APIs can be used to swap out run configuration for jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide demonstrated how we recommend writing your assets and jobs so that they transition from local development to staging and production environments without requiring code changes at each step. While we focused on assets in this guide, the same concepts and APIs can be used to swap out run configuration for jobs.
```

Nit - verb tense. This is the end of the guide, so past tense should be used.

### Optional: Testing

> You may have noticed a missing step in the development workflow presented in this guide— unit tests! While the main purpose of the guide is to help you transition your code from local development to a production deployment, unit testing is still an important part of the development cycle, and we’d like to take this time to explore a pattern you may find useful when writing your own unit tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may have noticed a missing step in the development workflow presented in this guide — unit tests! While the main purpose of the guide is to help you transition your code from local development to a production deployment, unit testing is still an important part of the development cycle. In this section, we'll explore a pattern you may find useful when writing your own tests.
```

Edited for clarity.

When we write unit tests for the `items` asset, we could make more precise assertions if we knew exactly what data we'd receive from Hacker News. If we refactor our interactions with the Hacker News API as a resource, we can leverage Dagster's resource system to provide a stub resource in our unit tests.

<Note>

In many cases, it is often most convenient to interact with an external service directly in assets or ops, rather than write a resource. We recommend that you refactor your code to use resources in the following cases:

> - you need multiple assets or ops to interact with the service in a consistent way
> - you want to interact with a different service in certain scenarios (ie. a staging environment, or unit tests)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need multiple assets or ops to interact with the service in a consistent way
- You want to interact with a different service in certain scenarios (ie. a staging environment, or unit tests)
```

The first word in list items should generally be capitalized.

  complicated to write and maintain a stub. For example, it would be difficult
  to mock a database like Snowflake with a lightweight database since the SQL
  syntax may vary. In general, if a resource is relatively simple, writing a
  stub can be really helpful for unit testing the assets and ops that use the
  resource.
</Note>

```python file=/guides/dagster/local_to_prod_tutorial/resources/resources_v2.py startafter=start_mock endbefore=end_mock
# resources.py

class StubHNClient:
    """
    Hacker News Client that returns fake data
    """

    def __init__(self):
        self.data = {
            1: {
                "id": 1,
                "type": "comment",
                "title": "the first comment",
                "by": "user1",
            },
            2: {"id": 2, "type": "story", "title": "an awesome story", "by": "user2"},
        }

    def fetch_item_by_id(self, item_id: int) -> Optional[Dict[str, Any]]:
        return self.data.get(item_id)

    def fetch_max_item_id(self) -> int:
        return 2

    @property
    def item_field_names(self):
        return ["id", "type", "title", "by"]

@resource
def stub_hn_client():
    return StubHNClient()
```

> <Note>

Reviewer: There are four callouts in this section alone - that's a lot.

I like that we're using them, but I think we should be more selective here. We don't want users to get callout fatigue - if everything is important, nothing is important.

Thoughts on this:

- The first (refactoring code to use resources) could be a normal paragraph
- The second (`item_field_names` in `HNAPIClient`) could go either way. I like that it highlights a link to GH, which makes me lean towards keeping it, but it could also be a normal paragraph.
- The third (`Determining when to stub a resource`) should be a normal paragraph. Copy will likely have to be shuffled to accommodate this for flow, but this doesn't need to be a callout.
- The fourth (writing an interface) is a good callout candidate.
